The mansion in which dwelt the Delmes was one of wide and extensive range. Its
centre slightly receded, leaving a wing on either side. Fluted ledges, extending
the whole length of the building, protruded above each story. These were
supported by quaint heads of satyr, martyr, or laughing triton. The upper ledge,
which concealed the roof from casual observers, was of considerably greater
projection. Placed above it, at intervals, were balls of marble, which, once of
pure white, had now caught the time-worn hue of the edifice itself. At each
corner of the front and wings, the balls were surmounted by the family
device--the eagle with extended wing. One claw closed over the stone, and the
bird rode it proudly an' it had been the globe. The portico, of a pointed
Gothic, would have seemed heavy, had it not been lightened by glass doors, the
vivid colours of which were not of modern date. These admitted to a capacious
hall, where, reposing on the wide-spreading antlers of some pristine tenant of
the park, gleamed many a piece of armour that in days of yore had not been worn
ingloriously.

The Delme family was an old Norman one, on whose antiquity a peerage could have
conferred no new lustre. At the period when the aristocracy of Great Britain
lent themselves to their own diminution of importance, by the prevalent system
of rejecting the poorer class of tenantry, in many instances the most
attached,--the consequence was foreseen by the then proprietor of Delme Park,
who, spurning the advice of some interested few around him, continued to foster
those whose ancestors had served his. The Delmes were thus enabled to
retain--and they deserved it--that fair homage which rank and property should
ever command. As a family they were popular, and as individuals universally
beloved.
